docs: add interop prep notice for OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia (#20835)
ethereum-optimism/optimism: docs/public-docs/notices/interop-prep.mdx

---
title: Prepare for interop on OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia
description: Node operator action checklist for the OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia interop activation, targeted for late June 2026.
lang: en-US
content_type: notice
topic: interop-prep
personas:
  - node-operator
categories:
  - protocol
  - infrastructure
is_imported_content: 'false'
audit-source:
  - op-supernode/cmd/main.go
  - op-supernode/flags/flags.go
  - op-supernode/supernode/supernode.go
  - op-supernode/supernode/activity/interop/interop.go
  - op-node/rollup/types.go
  - op-node/rollup/interop/config.go
---

> OP Stack interop activates on **OP Sepolia** (chain ID `11155420`) and **Unichain Sepolia** (chain ID `1301`) in **late June 2026**, forming a two-chain interop dependency set on testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OP Stack interop is expected to activate on **OP Sepolia** (chain ID `11155420`) and **Unichain Sepolia** (chain ID `1301`) in **late June 2026**, forming a two-chain interop dependency set on testnet.
```

> Node operators on either chain must change their topology before the activation timestamp: each operator runs one or more [op-supernode](/op-stack/interop/supernode) instances that derive both chains and validate the cross-chain messages between them, and the rest of the fleet runs as [Light CLs](/notices/specialized-node-topology) that follow the supernode tier's safe view.

Reviewer: idk wym about follow the, "supernode tier's safe view." Maybe we can just say, "follow the supernode"

<Warning>
  **A node that has not been migrated to the [supernode-plus-Light-CL topology](/notices/specialized-node-topology) by the activation timestamp cannot verify cross-chain dependencies.**
  Every op-node in the fleet must run with `--l2.follow.source` (env: `OP_NODE_L2_FOLLOW_SOURCE`) pointed at an op-supernode that derives both chains.
  Without that wiring — flag unset, or pointed at a non-supernode source — the op-node's safe head advances past the activation block without cross-chain validation, so the node cannot serve as a verifier or RPC source for the interop chain.

>   The [Specialized op-node topology notice](/notices/specialized-node-topology) describes that pattern in detail — *recommended* there, **required** here.

Reviewer: can you clarify, "recommended* there, **required** here."

Author: This actually doesn't need to be there anymore. Originally, when the light node topology notice was written, it was recommended to run that topology for more efficient compute; however, I updated that page as well to make it more required going forward. I'll update the phrasing here to reflect that.

  Start with that notice if your fleet hasn't moved off the homogeneous topology yet.
</Warning>

<Info>

>   The activation timestamps for OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia are scheduled for **late June 2026** but have not yet been finalized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The activation timestamps for OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia are planned for **late June 2026** but have not yet been finalized.
```

  This page will be updated with the exact timestamps once they are pinned.
  Interop on mainnet OP Stack chains is planned as a follow-up rollout after this testnet activation; mainnet activation timestamps will be announced separately.
</Info>

## What's changing

At the activation timestamp, OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia form a two-chain dependency set.
Every block on either chain can contain executing messages that reference initiating messages on the other; a block is only [safe](/op-stack/interop/explainer#block-safety-levels) once every initiating message it depends on has itself reached the same safety level.
The work of tracking both chains and proving those dependencies moves to a new component, [op-supernode](/op-stack/interop/supernode), that runs every chain in the dependency set together as virtual nodes inside one process.
The rest of the operator's fleet stops deriving locally and follows the supernode's safe view through op-node's [Light CL mode](/notices/specialized-node-topology).

For how cross-chain messages and block safety work under interop, see the [interop explainer](/op-stack/interop/explainer).

## Who this affects

> This notice applies to anyone running an op-node on OP Sepolia or Unichain Sepolia after the activation timestamp.

Reviewer: should this be generalized to OP Sepolia or Unichain Sepolia nodes?

Author: generalized to nodes

Every op-node in the fleet — replicas, RPC nodes, or any other op-node deployment — must run as a Light CL pointed at an op-supernode that derives both chains.
Each operator stands up at least one op-supernode for the dependency set and reconfigures every op-node in their fleet to follow it.

> Operators of any other OP Stack chain (mainnet, other testnets) are not affected by this rollout — interop on those chains is scheduled separately.

Reviewer: I think this should be clarified because other OP Stack chains will need to act, but they'll be running as dependency set of 1

Author: made this more clear

## Required components

Update or install the following components before the activation timestamp.
Versions marked `TBD` will be pinned in this notice once the activation release candidates are finalized.

| Component        | Version | Role |
| ---------------- | ------- | ---- |
| `op-supernode`   | `TBD`   | Runs OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia as virtual nodes inside one binary and verifies cross-chain messages. Required component. See the [supernode explainer](/op-stack/interop/supernode) and [configuration guide](/node-operators/guides/configuration/supernode). |
| `op-node`        | `TBD`   | Runs as a [Light CL](/notices/specialized-node-topology) on every node in the fleet; safe and finalized views are inherited from the supernode. |
| `op-reth`        | `TBD`   | Execution client. Run one per chain in the dependency set — an execution client cannot back two chains (op-node rejects a mismatched chain ID at startup), so a host serving both chains runs at least two execution-client processes. |

<Info>

>   **op-reth is the recommended execution client.** op-geth end-of-support is **May 31, 2026** — see [End of Support for op-geth and op-program](/notices/op-geth-deprecation). Interop activation lands after that date, so plan your fleet on op-reth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **op-reth is the required execution client.** op-geth end-of-support is **May 31, 2026** — see [End of Support for op-geth and op-program](/notices/op-geth-deprecation). Interop activation lands after that date, so plan your fleet on op-reth.
```

  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_NETWORK: op-sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_L2_ENGINE_RPC: http://127.0.0.1:8551
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_L2_ENGINE_KIND: reth
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_NETWORK: unichain-sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_L2_ENGINE_RPC: http://127.0.0.1:8561
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_L2_ENGINE_KIND: reth

  # Top-level JSON-RPC server (per-chain namespaces under /<chainID>/)
  OP_SUPERNODE_RPC_ADDR: 0.0.0.0
  OP_SUPERNODE_RPC_PORT: "8545"

  # Observability
  OP_SUPERNODE_LOG_LEVEL: info
  OP_SUPERNODE_METRICS_ENABLED: "true"
  OP_SUPERNODE_METRICS_ADDR: 0.0.0.0
  OP_SUPERNODE_METRICS_PORT: "7300"

  # Pre-activation only: override the interop activation timestamp until
  # the chains' rollup configs include `interop_time`.
  # Set to a future epoch-seconds value (e.g., late June 2026 once announced).
  # Drop this line once OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia rollup configs ship `interop_time`.
  OP_SUPERNODE_INTEROP_ACTIVATION_TIMESTAMP: "<future-unix-timestamp>"
  ```

  <Warning>
    op-supernode defaults `--interop.log-backfill-depth` to 7 days, which requires an interop activation timestamp to be known.

>     Until OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia rollup configs ship `interop_time` (close to activation), the supernode exits at startup with `interop.log-backfill-depth=168h0m0s requires an interop activation timestamp`.

Reviewer: will this be the lagoon time? I think maurelian updated the hardfork naming for this recently

Author: Yup confirmed this will be lagoon with maurelian. Updated the doc to represent this.

Full per-flag reference for the supernode is in the [supernode configuration guide](/node-operators/guides/configuration/supernode); this notice walks through the testnet-specific setup.

The command examples in each step are minimum viable configurations — they cover the flags required for the interop topology and nothing else.
Layer your usual production flags (monitoring, logging, P2P tuning, RPC modules, resource limits) on top as your environment requires.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Stand up execution clients for both chains">
  Run at least one op-reth process for OP Sepolia and at least one for Unichain Sepolia.
  Execution clients are not shared across chains; each supernode instance connects to exactly one engine-API endpoint per chain, and production fleets typically run several execution clients per chain to match the supernode tier and Light CL pool.
  Each execution client needs its own JWT secret file (or a single shared file — see the note at the end of this step) and its own engine-API listen address.

>   Snap-sync or full-sync each client to the chain head before bringing the supernode up — the supernode cannot advance a chain whose execution client is still syncing.

Reviewer 2: op-reth only has one type of sync mode. So just sync the nodes to each of the chains. Also its imporant to node that reth ELs of the supernode should be archive. Meaning RETH_FULL=false. 

Supernode ELs require historical receipts and should not prune receipts which is why RETH_FULL=false

Reviewer 3: op-reth does have options for configuring how much history is kept - you don't necessarily need a full archive node.  Block, receipt, tx indexing and world state history can all be configured separately and it does make a very big difference to the amount of disk space required.

I believe you'd need at least 7 days of block and receipt history (transactions don't need to be indexed and world state is not required) for the supernode to be able to fully backfill. I don't think we've done much testing with full node config though.

Reviewer 3: Also you can't sync the nodes before the super node is up because they wouldn't know what the chain head they're syncing to is.  You can just start the nodes not synced and then start supernode and it will drive the ELs to sync. It can also handle one chain being sync'd and the other not.

Author: Ok addressed with this line:

. Configure each EL to retain block and receipt history for at least 7 days so the supernode can backfill initiating-message logs (a full archive isn’t required — see the [op-reth configuration reference](http://localhost:3000/node-operators/reference/op-reth-config) for the granular --prune.* flags).

Reviewer 3: "If you also run op-challenger for permissionless fault proofs, these ELs additionally need historical proofs enabled"

Maybe we should say there are additional historical data requirements and provide the link. 7 days of block and receipt history won't be enough for permissionless proofs (needs ~30 days).

Author: Done:

" If you also run op-challenger for permissionless fault proofs, these ELs have additional historical data requirements that go beyond the 7-day baseline above — see [Running op-reth with Historical Proofs](/node-operators/tutorials/reth-historical-proofs) for the retention window and configuration"

  ```bash
  # OP Sepolia execution client
  op-reth node \
    --chain=optimism-sepolia \
    --datadir=/var/lib/op-reth-op-sepolia \
    --authrpc.addr=127.0.0.1 \
    --authrpc.port=8551 \
    --authrpc.jwtsecret=/etc/op/jwt-secret.txt

  # Unichain Sepolia execution client
  op-reth node \
    --chain=unichain-sepolia \
    --datadir=/var/lib/op-reth-unichain-sepolia \
    --authrpc.addr=127.0.0.1 \
    --authrpc.port=8561 \

>     --authrpc.jwtsecret=/etc/op/jwt-secret.txt

Reviewer 3: Do we want to include the proofs requirements here? op-challenger would require the supernode EL's to have historical proofs enabled.

It's not required if you aren't running op-challenger though.

  ```

  Both processes can share a single JWT secret file when the supernode is the only consensus client connecting to them.

>   Use separate files only if a different consensus client also connects to one of them.

Reviewer 3: This is not something that's supported - only one consensus client should be connected to the ELs.

Author: Corrected with this info (let me know if the Virtual nodes sharing the JWT secret are correct):

"Each EL in the fleet has exactly one consensus client connected to it. The supernode drives its ELs via per-chain virtual nodes; each Light CL also gets its own EL. The supernode shares one JWT secret across its internal virtual nodes via OP_SUPERNODE_VN_ALL_L2_ENGINE_AUTH (set the path once at the supernode level). Each Light CL connects to its EL with its own --l2.jwt-secret flag"

Reviewer 3: The super node _can_ share one JWT across all virtual nodes. Personally I tend to configure them with different JWT tokens but I can't really think of a reason for or against that.  The main thing is to ensure that they have the right JWT tokens configured. Recommending the same token be used probably makes sense for simplicity but we shouldn't state that it _can't_ use different tokens.

Author: Got it this is the new wording:

Set one JWT secret path for all of the supernode's virtual nodes via `OP_SUPERNODE_VN_ALL_L2_ENGINE_AUTH`, or override per chain with `OP_SUPERNODE_VN_<CHAINID>_L2_ENGINE_AUTH` if a chain's EL needs its own secret.

  </Step>

  <Step title="Stand up op-supernode for both chains">

>   Run op-supernode with both chains in `--chains`, a shared L1 RPC, a shared beacon endpoint, and at least one beacon archive fallback.

Reviewer 3: The beacon archive fallback is only required if the beacon node itself doesn't have the full blob history available. If we're previously just said one blob archiver fallback is required that's fine too - it's a sensible option, just not strictly required.

Author: Was more explicit here:

A beacon archive fallback is optional — only required if your primary beacon node doesn’t keep the full blob history the supernode might need to backfill (Ethereum beacon nodes typically prune blob sidecars after roughly 18 days).

  ```yaml
  # Dependency set and storage
  OP_SUPERNODE_CHAINS: "11155420,1301"          # OP Sepolia + Unichain Sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_DATA_DIR: /var/lib/op-supernode

  # Shared L1 access
  OP_SUPERNODE_L1_ETH_RPC: <your-sepolia-l1-eth-rpc>
  OP_SUPERNODE_L1_BEACON: <your-sepolia-l1-beacon-rpc>
  OP_SUPERNODE_L1_BEACON_FALLBACKS: <your-sepolia-l1-beacon-archiver-rpc>

  # Shared JWT secret for every virtual node's engine connection
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_ALL_L2_ENGINE_AUTH: /etc/op/jwt-secret.txt

  # Per-chain: chain identity, engine RPC, and engine kind (reth for both since the fleet runs op-reth)
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_NETWORK: op-sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_L2_ENGINE_RPC: http://127.0.0.1:8551
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_L2_ENGINE_KIND: reth
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_NETWORK: unichain-sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_L2_ENGINE_RPC: http://127.0.0.1:8561
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_L2_ENGINE_KIND: reth

  # Top-level JSON-RPC server (per-chain namespaces under /<chainID>/)
  OP_SUPERNODE_RPC_ADDR: 0.0.0.0
  OP_SUPERNODE_RPC_PORT: "8545"

  # Observability
  OP_SUPERNODE_LOG_LEVEL: info
  OP_SUPERNODE_METRICS_ENABLED: "true"
  OP_SUPERNODE_METRICS_ADDR: 0.0.0.0

>   OP_SUPERNODE_METRICS_PORT: "7300"

Reviewer 3: Earlier the doc said it would only include minimal options and extra ones for things like metrics should be added in.

Author: Good catch, I removed the metrics flags from the config leaving that to the operators to customize those variables as needed

  # Pre-activation only: override the interop activation timestamp until
  # the chains' rollup configs include `lagoon_time` (the field carrying the
  # Lagoon hardfork activation — the upgrade that enables interop).
  # Set to a future epoch-seconds value (e.g., late June 2026 once announced).
  # Drop this line once OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia rollup configs ship `lagoon_time`.

>   OP_SUPERNODE_INTEROP_ACTIVATION_TIMESTAMP: "<future-unix-timestamp>"

Reviewer 2: Also needs dependency set
```
OP_SUPERNODE_VN_ALL_INTEROP_DEPENDENCY_SET:
----
/etc/op-supernode/dependency-set.json
```

Reviewer 2: The file format looks like the following
```
dependency-set.json:
----

{"dependencies":{"420120084":{},"420120085":{}}}
```

Reviewer 3: side note: this is an interesting case - op-supernode is inheriting a CLI option from op-node here but the dependency set isn't per-chain, it's a global config. And op-node will soon be removing it's --dependency-set option because it doesn't actually need it (only uses it for legacy op-supervisor support).

Tracking issue: https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/protocol-team/issues/96

>   OP_SUPERNODE_INTEROP_ACTIVATION_TIMESTAMP: "<future-unix-timestamp>"

Reviewer 3: This seems like bad advice.  Normally we don't instruct users to override the activation time for hard forks and just tell them to upgrade to a version that has the config embedded from the superchain-registry.  That would provide both the activation timestamp and the dependency set.

op-supernode works correctly even if the activation time and dependency set are left unset (so long as the chain config isn't enabling interop which it isn't yet).

Reviewer 3: Update: bug found in supernode - it isn't yet loading dependency set from superchain-registry but that will be fixed before we ship.

Reviewer 3: Tracking issue: https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/protocol-team/issues/95

Author: Went ahead and updated the page, assuming the fix makes it through soon:

"The supernode picks up the interop activation timestamp and the dependency set from the rollup configs once those land in the [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry) — no manual override is required at this layer."

Reviewer 3: We will have this fixed before there is any chain in the super chain registry that actually has a dependency set (ie before we schedule the interop hard fork). Even with the current version, you can run op-supernode `--network="op-mainnet"` and it will load all the config it needs from the super chain registry correctly.

So I think we should just simplify this and not mention having to manually configure things, or only have that in a section about using custom configuration instead of the superchain-registry. Users are used to hard fork timestamps being picked up from the rollup config (which typically comes from the super chain registry) so I don't think we need an explicit call out that happens for interop too.

Author: Ok removed the custom configuration for now, the less noise the better

  ```

  <Warning>
    op-supernode defaults `--interop.log-backfill-depth` to 7 days, which requires an interop activation timestamp to be known.
    Until OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia rollup configs ship `lagoon_time` (the Lagoon hardfork activation field that lights up interop, set close to activation), the supernode exits at startup with `interop.log-backfill-depth=168h0m0s requires an interop activation timestamp`.
    Set `OP_SUPERNODE_INTEROP_ACTIVATION_TIMESTAMP` (or `--interop.activation-timestamp`) to a future epoch-seconds value while testing, or set `OP_SUPERNODE_INTEROP_LOG_BACKFILL_DEPTH=0s` to disable the backfill.

>   </Warning>

Reviewer 3: We should not document this - it should not be how op-supernode behaves. And I'm pretty sure it isn't - backfill only kicks in if there is an activation timestamp set.

Tracking issue: https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/issues/20892

Author: removed this section

Reviewer 3: Fix has merged. We should tag a new RC soon - both for these usability fixes and for all the stabilisation that's happened recently.

```

The first `"Safety levels"` line is the smoke test: if `safe=` shows your supernode URL and per-chain prefix, the wiring is right.
Once the supernode is past initial sync and starts promoting safe heads, `eSafe` and `externalSafe` carry climbing block numbers.
If the Light CL never advances past genesis (`eSafe=...:0`) for many minutes, `--l2.follow.source` is pointed at the wrong URL or namespace — recheck the per-chain prefix (`/11155420` for OP Sepolia, `/1301` for Unichain Sepolia).

If you scrape Prometheus, the equivalent gauge on a Light CL is `op_node_default_refs_number{layer="l2",type="l2_safe"}` — one Grafana panel per Light CL plus one panel per supernode chain, side by side, makes any divergence obvious.

## Troubleshooting

* **Safe head advances but RPC consumers report invalid blocks.** The op-node isn't following an op-supernode — either `--l2.follow.source` is unset, or it points at a non-supernode source — so safe-head promotion skips cross-chain validation. Point `--l2.follow.source` at a supernode that derives both chains.

> * **Supernode chain container fails to start.** The most common cause is `OP_SUPERNODE_VN_<CHAINID>_L2_ENGINE_RPC` pointing at an execution client that is unreachable or still syncing. Bring the execution client up first.

Reviewer 3: op-supernode can start if the EL is still syncing (I've been doing that on my home node). It may need the EL to be up at startup or at least reasonably soon after it (generally we retry calls made at startup a few times but they often do then cause an exit).

Author: Removed this as a troubleshooting step altogether, seems like this probably won't be a common issue and I think logs would be clear here if it does happen

---
title: Prepare for interop on OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia

> description: Node operator action checklist for the OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia interop activation, targeted for late June 2026.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Node operator action checklist for the OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia interop activation, targeted in July of 2026.
```

lang: en-US
content_type: notice
topic: interop-prep
personas:
  - node-operator
categories:
  - protocol
  - infrastructure
is_imported_content: 'false'
audit-source:
  - op-supernode/cmd/main.go
  - op-supernode/flags/flags.go
  - op-supernode/supernode/supernode.go
  - op-supernode/supernode/activity/interop/interop.go
  - op-node/rollup/types.go
  - op-node/rollup/interop/config.go
---

> OP Stack interop is expected to activate on **OP Sepolia** (chain ID `11155420`) and **Unichain Sepolia** (chain ID `1301`) in **late June 2026**, forming a two-chain interop dependency set on testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OP Stack interop is expected to activate on **OP Sepolia** (chain ID `11155420`) and **Unichain Sepolia** (chain ID `1301`) in in **July of 2026**, forming a two-chain interop dependency set on testnet.
```

Node operators on either chain must change their topology before the activation timestamp: each operator runs one or more [op-supernode](/op-stack/interop/supernode) instances that derive both chains and validate the cross-chain messages between them, and the rest of the fleet runs as [Light CLs](/notices/specialized-node-topology) that follow the supernode.

<Warning>
  **A node that has not been migrated to the [supernode-plus-Light-CL topology](/notices/specialized-node-topology) by the activation timestamp cannot verify cross-chain dependencies.**
  Every op-node in the fleet must run with `--l2.follow.source` (env: `OP_NODE_L2_FOLLOW_SOURCE`) pointed at an op-supernode that derives both chains.
  Without that wiring — flag unset, or pointed at a non-supernode source — the op-node's safe head advances past the activation block without cross-chain validation, so the node cannot serve as a verifier or RPC source for the interop chain.
  The [Specialized op-node topology notice](/notices/specialized-node-topology) describes the pattern in detail.
  Start with that notice if your fleet hasn't moved off the homogeneous topology yet.
</Warning>

<Info>

>   The activation timestamps for OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia are planned for **late June 2026** but have not yet been finalized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The activation timestamps for OP Sepolia and Unichain Sepolia are planned for in **July of 2026** but have not yet been finalized.
```

  Each execution client needs its own JWT secret file (a single shared file across both ELs is fine — see the note at the end of this step) and its own engine-API listen address.
  ELs can start unsynced; they wait until the supernode connects before they know what chain head to sync to.
  The supernode then drives each EL through its initial sync via the engine API, and tolerates the common case where one chain's EL is already synced and the other isn't.
  Configure each EL to retain block and receipt history for at least 7 days so the supernode can backfill initiating-message logs (a full archive isn't required — see the [op-reth configuration reference](/node-operators/reference/op-reth-config) for the granular `--prune.*` flags).
  If you also run op-challenger for permissionless fault proofs, these ELs additionally need historical proofs enabled — see [Running op-reth with Historical Proofs](/node-operators/tutorials/reth-historical-proofs). Pure node operators (RPC, exchange, indexer) without op-challenger can skip that.

  ```bash
  # OP Sepolia execution client
  op-reth node \
    --chain=optimism-sepolia \
    --datadir=/var/lib/op-reth-op-sepolia \

>     --authrpc.addr=127.0.0.1 \

Reviewer 3: Note that if you're using the docker image, this won't be available because it's only listening on the loopback device _inside_ the docker image. It would need to be 0.0.0.0 in docker (or where the supernode is on a different host).

Also for the Unichain command below.

Author: addressed adding this line:

The example binds the engine RPC to 127.0.0.1. If op-reth runs in a Docker container, or on a different host from the supernode, set --authrpc.addr=0.0.0.0 (or a specific interface IP reachable from the supernode) and restrict access at the network layer.

  OP_SUPERNODE_DATA_DIR: /var/lib/op-supernode

  # Shared L1 access
  OP_SUPERNODE_L1_ETH_RPC: <your-sepolia-l1-eth-rpc>
  OP_SUPERNODE_L1_BEACON: <your-sepolia-l1-beacon-rpc>
  # OP_SUPERNODE_L1_BEACON_FALLBACKS: <your-sepolia-l1-beacon-archiver-rpc>  # optional; add if your primary beacon prunes blob sidecars

  # Shared JWT secret for every virtual node's engine connection
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_ALL_L2_ENGINE_AUTH: /etc/op/jwt-secret.txt

  # Per-chain: chain identity, engine RPC, and engine kind (reth for both since the fleet runs op-reth)
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_NETWORK: op-sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_L2_ENGINE_RPC: http://127.0.0.1:8551
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_11155420_L2_ENGINE_KIND: reth
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_NETWORK: unichain-sepolia
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_L2_ENGINE_RPC: http://127.0.0.1:8561
  OP_SUPERNODE_VN_1301_L2_ENGINE_KIND: reth

  # Top-level JSON-RPC server (per-chain namespaces under /<chainID>/)
  OP_SUPERNODE_RPC_ADDR: 0.0.0.0
  OP_SUPERNODE_RPC_PORT: "8545"
  ```

  The supernode loads the interop activation timestamp from each chain's rollup config — no manual override is required there.

>   The dependency set isn't yet loaded from the [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry), so set it explicitly with `--vn.all.interop.dependency-set=<path>` (env: `OP_SUPERNODE_VN_ALL_INTEROP_DEPENDENCY_SET`), pointing at a JSON file that lists the two chains:

Reviewer 3: We will have this fixed before there is any chain in the super chain registry that actually has a dependency set (ie before we schedule the interop hard fork). Even with the current version, you can run `op-supernode --network="op-mainnet"` and it will load all the config it needs from the super chain registry correctly. 

So I think we should just simplify this and not mention having to manually configure things, or only have that in a section about using custom configuration instead of the superchain-registry.

Author: done
